refactor-plan.md, before:

# Refactor plan

## Separate HTTP Client

DONE

## Use isAlive instead of Status Check

Problem:
Right now every device has a /status endpoint that gets checked every 20s, which wastes battery life.
The only reason we need it right now is because we want to know the state of the TRIGGER device (on or off).

Solution:
Instead of every device having a /status endpoint, have the TRIGGER device expose an /isEnabled endpoint and query that
periodically.
Apart from that, have each device expose an /isAlive endpoint, which merely returns a 200 OK response to indicate
the device is alive.
The /isAlive endpoint can be used by the server to make sure a device is alive for such devices that do not
periodically call other endpoints. For devices that call endpoints periodically, use the response from those
to determine whether a device is alive or dead.

Hold the liveness status of a device in memory. Refresh that liveness status on each interaction with the device.
If a device exists that is not interacted with often enough, check the last liveness update on each `refreshStatus` call
and for such devices that have not been checked for some time, call `isAlive` and update the liveness status.

That way we avoid making useless calls to devices.

If a device is dead, grey it out on UI side. For such device, query `isAlive` on every refresh.

If a device is unresponsive, block command calls to it. Make an `isAlive` call to it on every `refreshStatus` and only
resume command calls once it becomes responsive again. Can probably remove the handleDeviceResponsiveness func on command
calls then.

## Trigger refreshStatus on a clock server-side instead of each getDevices call

Right now we trigger refreshStatus on each call to getDevices. Instead, make the server refresh status of devices
by itself every x seconds. A call to getDevices will simply return the results since the last refresh and not
trigger the refresh again.

## Fix up the database interface and make it more coherent

Do we need Option/Optional? Make the method names coherent. Maybe generalize some stuff that is stored and retrieved
in the exact same way but is just a different object. Make separate DB entities and make them editable?

## Cleanup stuff

DeviceStatus needed?
Layouts needed?
Remove ActivationPeriods for now

## Get rid of status check scheduled job

## Make TOGGLE use /isEnabled as just another command

Adjust frontend to new form of dashboard config file. DONE?
Remove intervals on unresponsive device (DONE)? Or just delete devices if unresponsive for too long (see other point)
Make TRIGGER call the endpoint defined as manual on click. DONE
Make CAM_SINGLE_IMAGE call the /pic endpoint on interval, same as now, but defined in a different way DONE

## Get rid of getStatus() from DeviceClient

To do that, we need to get rid of `device.status.params.enabled === 'true'` bit and replace it with an interval call
to `/isEnabled`, store the result of that in the responses array and refer to that to enable or disable the checkbox.
Would be best to update it at once when the value is changed and then overwrite with the response of isEnabled later on.

## Get rid of DeviceStatus and everything that uses it

## Completely remove unresponsive devices from memory once they fail x isAlive checks (or after time period) - configurable

Commit message:

Try to fix toggle device

refactor-plan.md, after:

# Refactor plan

## Separate HTTP Client

DONE

## Use isAlive instead of Status Check

Problem:
Right now every device has a /status endpoint that gets checked every 20s, which wastes battery life.
The only reason we need it right now is because we want to know the state of the TRIGGER device (on or off).

Solution:
Instead of every device having a /status endpoint, have the TRIGGER device expose an /isEnabled endpoint and query that
periodically.
Apart from that, have each device expose an /isAlive endpoint, which merely returns a 200 OK response to indicate
the device is alive.
The /isAlive endpoint can be used by the server to make sure a device is alive for such devices that do not
periodically call other endpoints. For devices that call endpoints periodically, use the response from those
to determine whether a device is alive or dead.

Hold the liveness status of a device in memory. Refresh that liveness status on each interaction with the device.
If a device exists that is not interacted with often enough, check the last liveness update on each `refreshStatus` call
and for such devices that have not been checked for some time, call `isAlive` and update the liveness status.

That way we avoid making useless calls to devices.

If a device is dead, grey it out on UI side. For such device, query `isAlive` on every refresh.

If a device is unresponsive, block command calls to it. Make an `isAlive` call to it on every `refreshStatus` and only
resume command calls once it becomes responsive again. Can probably remove the handleDeviceResponsiveness func on command
calls then.

## Trigger refreshStatus on a clock server-side instead of each getDevices call

Right now we trigger refreshStatus on each call to getDevices. Instead, make the server refresh status of devices
by itself every x seconds. A call to getDevices will simply return the results since the last refresh and not
trigger the refresh again.

## Fix up the database interface and make it more coherent

Do we need Option/Optional? Make the method names coherent. Maybe generalize some stuff that is stored and retrieved
in the exact same way but is just a different object. Make separate DB entities and make them editable?

## Cleanup stuff

DeviceStatus needed?
Layouts needed?
Remove ActivationPeriods for now

## Get rid of status check scheduled job

## Make TOGGLE use /isEnabled as just another command

Adjust frontend to new form of dashboard config file. DONE?
Remove intervals on unresponsive device (DONE)? Or just delete devices if unresponsive for too long (see other point)
Make TRIGGER call the endpoint defined as manual on click. DONE
Make CAM_SINGLE_IMAGE call the /pic endpoint on interval, same as now, but defined in a different way DONE

## Get rid of getStatus() from DeviceClient

To do that, we need to get rid of `device.status.params.enabled === 'true'` bit and replace it with an interval call
to `/isEnabled`, store the result of that in the responses array and refer to that to enable or disable the checkbox.
Would be best to update it at once when the value is changed and then overwrite with the response of isEnabled later on.

Need to either change the "enabled" param to boolean or do a string compare.

Need to figure out an approach where pressing the toggle flicks a local state which is also bound to the model, but
at the same time we need to override that local state each time we get a response from the `/isEnabled` call.
In such setup we will get immediate feedback and the isEnabled call will make sure we display the correct state
eventually (after 20s at worst with current config).

## Get rid of DeviceStatus and everything that uses it

## Completely remove unresponsive devices from memory once they fail x isAlive checks (or after time period) - configurable
